There's a ton of things that you can do
with Python and you'll learn many of
them in this course. But before we dive
into complex subjects, let's have some
fun with another simple task that you
can do with Python.
We are going to make Python our
calculator.
Let's start with something easy.
So 4 plus 5 is 9, 9 times 7 is 63,
minus 1 divided by 4 is minus 0.25.
Easy. Repeating or periodic numbers are
printed in a longer format.
Let's try 1 divided by 3.
In math theory, when 1 is divided by 3,
the digit 3 repeats forever after the
decimal point. Of course, it's hard to
display something that repeats forever.
So instead, we have a representation
showing lots of decimal places.
Not too hard, right? Let's get the
computer something a bit trickier.
Let's say we want to divide 2050 by 5,
then subtract 32 and then divide the
result by 9. To do this, we'll need to
use parentheses, just as we do in
typical math problems.
You can also use Python to get squares,
cubes, or any power of n of a number.
For example, let's say we want to find
out what 2 to the power of 10 is.
To get Python to give us the answer, we
use the double star operator.
If you're starting to worry that this
is becoming an algebra course, relax.
We're not going to do anything more
complex than what we've just seen.
If you're thinking, "Why would I use
Python instead of just a normal
calculator?" That's a valid question.
Experimenting in this way, you get
familiar with the language's math
capabilities. In IT jobs, there are
many tasks that require you to use math
calculations. You might need to count
how many times a certain word appears in
a text, or work out the average time it
takes for an operation to complete, or
how much you have to compress an image
to fit in certain size constraints.
Whatever you need to calculate, writing
a script can help you do it faster and
with more accuracy. So you need to know
what mathematical operations are
available to you. Python actually has a
lot more advanced numeric capabilities
that are used for data analysis,
statistics, machine learning, and other
scientific applications.
We won't get into these in this course.
But if you want to learn more about
them on your own, there's a wealth of
online resources available.
Next up, a cheat sheet to help you with
programming concepts that we've just
covered. After that, it's time for
another quiz.
This time with a few small coding
exercises.
Remember, if something is unclear, you
can re-watch the videos as many times as
you need. Ready?
You've got this.